# Simha & Ting 2023 Journal of Experimental Physiology
Computational models can be critical to linking complex properties of muscle spindle organs to the sensory information that they encode during behaviours such as postural sway and locomotion where few muscle spindle recordings exist. Here, we augment a biophysical muscle spindle model to predict the muscle spindle sensory signal. Muscle spindles comprise several intrafusal muscle fibres with varied myosin expression and are innervated by sensory neurons that fire during muscle stretch. We demonstrate how cross-bridge dynamics from thick and thin filament interactions affect the sensory receptor potential at the spike initiating region. Equivalent to the Ia afferent's instantaneous firing rate, the receptor potential is modelled as a linear sum of the force and rate change of force (yank) of a dynamic bag1 fibre and the force of a static bag2/chain fibre. We show the importance of inter-filament interactions in (i) generating large changes in force at stretch onset that drive initial bursts and (ii) faster recovery of bag fibre force and receptor potential following a shortening. We show how myosin attachment and detachment rates qualitatively alter the receptor potential. Finally, we show the effect of faster recovery of receptor potential on cyclic stretch–shorten cycles. Specifically, the model predicts history-dependence in muscle spindle receptor potentials as a function of inter-stretch interval (ISI), pre-stretch amplitude and the amplitude of sinusoidal stretches. This model provides a computational platform for predicting muscle spindle response in behaviourally relevant stretches and can link myosin expression seen in healthy and diseased intrafusal muscle fibres to muscle spindle function.

This repository contains code that can be used to reproduce the results presented in Simha and Ting 2023 (https://doi.org/10.1113/EP090767).

Each of the files whose name starts with "main_" can be run to generate the respective figures from the paper. The figures generated by these scripts include details beyond that which are published in the paper. E.g., while the published Figure 4 only shows the receptor potential, main_fig4_sine.m will also generate generate the time series for the intrafusal muscle stress.

### These files require MATMyoSim
1. Create a fork of MATMyoSim from https://github.com/Campbell-Muscle-Lab/MATMyoSim.
2. Replace "update_2state_with_poly.m" in MATMyoSim under code> @half_sarcomere with "update_2state_with_poly.m" provided in this repository.
